---
title: "Cellular, Biophysical and in Silico Binding Study of β-Estradiol-6-one 6-(O-carboxy methyl Oxime) with Tubulin in Search of Antimitotic Derivative of 2-Methoxy Estradiol"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2023-01-02-cellular
excerpt: 'To address the severe side effects of colchicine, a potent tubulin-destabilizing anti-cancer drug, by identifying alternative compounds with similar pharmacophores.'
date: 2023-01-02
venue: 'Cell Biochemistry and Biophysics'
# slidesurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/slides1.pdf'
# paperurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/paper1.pdf'
# citation: 'Your Name, You. (2009). &quot;Paper Title Number 1.&quot; <i>Journal 1</i>. 1(1).'
---

### Goal
To address the severe side effects of colchicine, a potent tubulin-destabilizing anti-cancer drug, by identifying alternative compounds with similar pharmacophores.

### My contribution
I conducted enzyme kinetic and thermodynamic assays, including fluorescence quenching and isothermal titration calorimetric `analyses, alongside in vitro studies to evaluate cytotoxic potential of estrogen derivatives. Additionally, I performed in silico investigations to validate and understand the molecular interactions and chemistry of the compounds being studied.

### Results
β-Estradiol-6-one-6-(O-carboxy methyl Oxime) emerged as the most effective compound from the screening. In silico analyses revealed its potential to target the colchicine-binding site on tubulin, while in vitro studies confirmed its anti-mitotic effects. This research was further developed post-graduation and culminated in a publication in Cell Biochemistry and Biophysics.

### Impact
This study introduced Oxime as a promising anti-cancer agent capable of overcoming the limitations and side effects associated with colchicine. It highlighted the therapeutic potential of structurally modified estrogen derivatives as tubulin-targeting agents, paving the way for the development of less toxic and more effective cancer treatments. These findings contribute to expanding the arsenal of anti-mitotic agents with improved safety profiles and efficacy.


**To read article. Please look [here](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1BPR18FW2z8RKraSZC8ttAFKdhuYKODNH&usp=drive_copy).**